## What is DatabricksIQ (DBIQ)? 

DBIQ is the engine that powers the 'intelligence' in the Databricks Data Intelligence Platform. DBIQ is not a single technology; it is a collection of capabilities that together give life to the DI Platform.  Backend services like liquid clustering and serverless autoscaling optimization use machine learning to optimize performance and cost, and front end services aid in data discovery, authoring code, and analysis.  These user-facing services include:

* **The Databricks Assistant**
* **Intelligent Search**
* **AI-generated documentation in Unity Catalog**
* **Genie Data Rooms**

The whole of these capabilities is greater than the sum of their parts, and this is the essence of DatabricksIQ.  It is what turns Databricks from simply a lakehouse into an intelligent data platform. 

#### What is the value of DBIQ?
DBIQ _accelerates_ the workstreams of every member of the data team, including non-technical business users. Now everyone can discover and interact with their data in the Lakehouse _using natural language_.  Furthermore, those who are proficient in authoring code will benefit from the Assistant helping them author, test and debug.  

## What's in this repo?
This repo contains two relatively lightweight demos that shouldn't take more than 15-20m to deliver:

* Movies Analysis
* Chicago Food Inspections

### Movies Analysis
This demo covers the journey of developing a gold table that can be analyzed in a Genie Data Room.  It consists of 2 main notebooks and an optional 3rd one.  Since demoing the Assistant and AI generated features can be tough, we have captured GIFs of how DBIQ is being used.  If code is generated, the code is in the notebook and can be run.  In other cases you can simply describe the animation and explain what is happening.  If you are feeling up to it, you could demo the features yourself using the same data but keep in mind that the results are probabilistic and can sometimes be unexpected. The GIFs are more consistent, though sometimes you might have to do it live. 

**Demo flow:**
1. Open `DatabricksIQ - 01 - Data curation and documentation`.
2. Explain what DBIQ, how all of the code in the notebook is generated by the Assistant, and the dataset.
3. **Assume the Data Engineering role** and go through one or two examples of data engineering tasks in the notebook - creating structured data from unstructured data, changing data types.  Show the prompts and the code output.
4. As the final task for the data engineer, **document the table** you just created using AI generated documentation in UC. This makes it more discoverable for others in the organization.
5. **Assume the SQL Analyst role** and talk through Intelligent Search gifs in the notebook.  Highlight how the AI-generated documentation improves the search results. Feel free to try out the search in the UI itself, or you can stick to the gifs in the notebook.  Your choice.
6. Open `DatabricksIQ - 02 - Data discovery and analysis`.
7. Show and explain the `/findTables` command from the SQL Editor, highlighting how the Assistant is available in multiple surfaces of Databricks, and (again) how the AI-generated documentation improves the Assistant results.
8. Walk through the helpful options that the Assistant offers when it finds the table for you, and make sure to emphasize the ability to interact with the data in natural language.
9. Show how a SQL Analyst can set up a Genie Data Room using the GIFs.
10. **Assume the non-technical business user role** and have a chat with the movies data in natural language in the Data Room!
11. Conclude by reinforcing how AI has been woven into the Databricks platform to help democratize data and AI to everyone, coders and non-coders.  That's DBIQ, and that's the intelligence engine behind the DI Platform.

### Chicago Food Inspections
This demo is primarily focused on working in a Genie Data Room.  You can use the notebooks to create a table, and then have a conversation with that table using Genie.  

**Instructions to add:**
_When using the dba_name or aka_name columns consider all the different spelling errors for any particular business name._

**Questions to ask:**

1. What tables are there and how are they connected? Give me a short summary.
2. Show me inspections over time at the month level.
3. Visualize as a trend line.
4. Which businesses have failed the most times?.
5. I only need to see the top 3.
6. Show me all violations for the failed inspections for Subway.
7. Summarize all inspection results for Subway.
8. Visualize as a bar chart.
9. Sort by inspections in descending order.
10. Show fails over time.
11. Visualize as a trend line.
12. Are they getting better or worse over time?
13. Have they gotten better or worse since the pandemic?
14. Visualize by year.

___
Any questions about the demo?  Email me at rafi.kurlansik@databricks.com.
